>> Speaker 2: So when do you want to
use a custom hook instead of just
creating another component?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, it's a good question.
My first answer to your question is, there
are divided opinions on the matter, so
there's not a right answer here.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: The extreme side of one
of it is, there are some people that I
know that will say, never put an effect
in your component, ever period,
end of sentence, and that any effect
should always go on a custom hook.
>> Brian Holt: That's one side of it.
There's an amount of validity to it,
because then the nice thing about custom
hooks is they become easy to
test in isolation, right?
As opposed to like a part
of a great component,
you can test just that
the hook is working.
That can be nice, right?
>> Brian Holt: The other side of people's,
never write any custom hooks,
always put it in the component.
I think there's less validity to that.
I'm probably mostly to the side
of most effects should probably
end up in custom hooks if they're
shared at all or need to be tested.
Which one usually one of those is true,
right?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
So the nice thing about like this hook and
during the testing section, we will
actually write tests for this hook, so
you'll actually see how to test hooks.
We can test that it's calling the API,
it's using the right parameters,
it does the right thing
when there's nothing there,
it does the right thing when
there is something there.
It becomes very, straightforward and
very easy to test.
>> Brian Holt: And then, now, if I had
like a, let's say I was writing like
the admin dashboard for this, and I needed
to fetch the pizza of the day so I could
show, like, stats for how many pizzas
of the days that we were able to push.
I could just use this hook all over again,
right?
Yeah, and
this just immediately gives it back to me.
I don't have to rewrite the logic again.
>> Brian Holt: So hopefully that kind
of bounds the box of where your opinion
should lie, right?
Somewhere in there,
in this specific case where we
only are using pizza the day,
in this very one place.
I'm gonna put in the component 'cause I
just, this is not an interesting enough
custom hook for me to try and encapsulate
it or test it to all hell and back right?
>> Brian Holt: I'm sure you've
all heard of dry code, right?
Do not repeat yourself.
I'm a wet code person.
[LAUGH] Write everything thrice.
[LAUGH] The third time I go to write, like
copy a piece of logic, I'm like, okay,
maybe I should put this into a module and
reuse it, right?
First time, absolutely not.
Second time might be a fluke.
Third time it probably is like
app code that I need to test.
>> Brian Holt: There's my methodology,
but up to you.
>> Speaker 3: Let's say that the network
call takes a long time to respond.
Will this cause a delay in the rendering
from the custom hook, or will
it return undefined first and then, when
it has a value, return the updated value?
>> Brian Holt: Good question.
Let's walk through it.
>> Brian Holt: Pizza of the day.
After we're done with this section.
I'm never saying pizza of the day ever again.
[LAUGH] For the record,
until we get to the testing section and
then I'm right back on the pony.
Okay, so
>> Brian Holt: I have this function here
which calls this.
This is not await or anything like that.
This is just directly
calling the function.
>> Brian Holt: So this is not awaiting
this is sync, so this is gonna call this,
it's gonna go into here, and
it's gonna set this to be null, right?
It's then going to schedule
an effect to be run.
Keep in mind, renders finish first
before their effects happen.
So your first render is always gonna
be done by the time the effect is
actually run.
So this effect, this function here,
is scheduled to run, but does not run yet.
What gets returned on the first render?
>> Speaker 3: Null.
>> Brian Holt: Null,
that's the default value.
So this repeats the data for
the first render before this effect.
Effect has been run,
this return here is going to be null,
which means here is null.
So what happens when we
hit this block with null?
>> Brian Holt: It's going
to just return loading.
It returns, right?
This is an early return pattern, right?
And so none of this gets run.
>> Brian Holt: It just returns
this in short circuits here.
Now the effect runs, we get back
from the API, the set gets called,
this gets rendered again.
This is now actually an object
that came back from the API.
Is it null?
No.
So all of this is gonna get rendered.
>> Brian Holt: So, I mean, let's just
super draw this out into being agonizing.
Wait for 10 seconds.
>> Brian Holt: All right,
so yeah, I got it.
Copilot.
>> Brian Holt: See this very
[LAUGH] small loading down here?
I am very talented with loading spinners,
as you can see,
>> Brian Holt: But
nothing is being rendered down there,
and then eventually it shows up.
Did you use a lowercase "u" in
the file name of the custom hook
because it's a naming convention?
Like, use pizza the day here.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, let's talk
about the name, kind of in general.
It's a lowercase "u" because
it's not a component, right?
What is this returning?
>> Brian Holt: This returns a hook
which is not renderable by and
of itself in react.
It has, it's part of a composable part of
>> Brian Holt: Like a,
what a component can use to get data.
So maybe state it differently.
Only components have the convention
of being named in uppercase.
And just to be super clear,
the file names really don't matter.
You will see people call this
like pizza.jsx like this.
>> Brian Holt: Because, like,
Linux file systems are insensitive and
most of our stuff is always
running on Linux, right?
So you can run into issues,
actually, by uppercasing things.
That did happen to me at Netflix one time.
>> Brian Holt: That
usually doesn't matter.
You usually don't have to care.
Usually the convention of putting
uppercase here is useful for
me at a glance to say, like, this is
a component, and it exports a component.
>> Brian Holt: So another way of
stating this is, not a component.
And anything that's not a component,
I always just lowercase name.
It's really,
only components that get the uppercase.
>> Brian Holt: And then we did talk
about earlier that it is important for
the name of the thing.
So looking at Order here that Pizza
does need to be uppercase "P" for that.
Now the next thing to say is
"use".
>> Brian Holt: Hooks
have "use" in front of it.
That is a convention.
It's not necessarily gonna break React,
but if you use, "use" in your name,
then all of the React linting will catch
errors that you would do with potentially
with a hook, right?
So, we haven't put it in here.
In fact,
I don't even know if I do it in here.
>> Brian Holt: If we go into,
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
PizzaOfTheDay here, and if I say,
something like, if true, or
something like that,
is this gonna catch this?
>> Brian Holt: It does look at that.
Nope.
Nevermind.
It doesn't if I had the React hooks
ESlint rules in here, it would catch
this because even though
PizzaOfTheDay is not its own type of hook,
it knows, it's like this begins with "use".
And therefore I know that
this cannot be inside of a,
an if statement
>> Brian Holt: Beyond that,
it's just very easy to see at a glance.
usePizzaOfTheDay,
very obvious that this is a custom hook,
right?
>> Brian Holt: So while you don't have to,
as your future co worker, you do have to.